---
layout: post
title: "Working as a UI-Designer at ePages"
date: "2016-12-15 12:11:00"
image: blog-header/ui-designer.jpg
categories: working-at-epages
authors: ["Rose, Serena", "Verena"]
---

So far, we have interviewed a [Ruby Developer](https://developer.epages.com/blog/2016/02/04/hr-ruby.html), a [Java Developer](https://developer.epages.com/blog/2016/03/01/hr-java.html), a [QA engineer](https://developer.epages.com/blog/2016/04/12/hr-quality-assurance.html) and a [Software Developer](https://developer.epages.com/blog/2016/06/01/hr-backend.html) to learn about working at ePages.
For this post, we asked a UI-Designer in Hamburg about her daily work.

## Here's her story:

Hi, my name is Verena and I work as a User Interface Designer at ePages since July 2012.
I originally started as an intern in January 2012 in Jena, but then got offered to work as a full-time employee, which I happily accepted.
When I started in Jena, I was involved in a project based in Jena and Hamburg, simultaneously.
In July 2015, the project was finally relocated to Hamburg, and I was asked to move along with the project.
After some thinking, I took the opportunity and I now have been living in Hamburg for already a year and four months.
The project's name is Unity and we are developing a new shop software using frontend and backend technology.
Currently, a beta version is on the market.
We hope the new shop design, which includes simpler functionalities as well as a responsive storefront will be accepted and approved by the users.

## How did you get to know ePages?

Originally, I studied graphic design.
I, then, decided that I wanted to head more into an e-commerce direction and work with programs such as HTML, LESS, JavaScript, and alike.
At an open door event at Jena University, I got to know two employees from ePages.
As we got engaged into a discussion, they told me about an open day at ePages' office in Jena about three weeks later.
On that day, I got a very good impression of ePages as a company and employer, my potential colleagues and I was able to clarify some remaining questions.
I applied for an internship, got invited for an interview and finally got accepted.

## How was your onboarding and first time at ePages?

I remember on my very first day, I got shown around and introduced to all teams, such as Application Management, QA, etc.
Afterwards, I set up my computer and checked out our company's intranet [Confluence](https://de.atlassian.com/software/confluence) and tried to get familiar and remember all of my colleagues' names.

In the first month, I attended a partner training in Hamburg and thereby got to know our office in Hamburg as well as my Hanseatic colleagues - a little sneak peak of what was about to become my future workplace and home so to speak.
After the first week, I began to develop a style guide, which was a perfect way to get an overview of what kind of software we use and also to get in touch with my new colleagues.
Thereafter, I firstly started with some smaller [Jira](https://de.atlassian.com/software/jira) tickets and fixed some bugs.

## What are typical tasks of a UI-Designer and what technologies do you use to solve these?

This varies quite a bit depending on the type of task.
At the moment, for example, we are redesigning our existing software.
Therefore, we design UI elements, or design and improve new features.
Sometimes, we also refactor code - so as you see, my work greatly varies from conceptional and design-related work to code-related topics.

I mostly work with LESS, HTML, CSS, GitHub, Source Tree and Photoshop for creating themes, e.g. the home page or category pages.
At the moment, I don't work a lot with JavaScript, yet I always need to know some basics of ReactJS, whenever I need to change a bit of code in our templates.
When it comes to our responsive themes, we don't work with Bootstraps, but developed our shop-software themes' mobile responsiveness ourselves.
We do use Bootstraps though for our MBO pages, for example for the new product detail page, the general settings page and alike.
If I am developing a new theme, it is often easier to take screenshots, which I then adjust in Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator.

## What does a typical day for an UI-Designer look like?

My day usually starts at 8 o'clock.
In the morning I am mostly by myself as I am the early bird of my team.
This way, I have enough time to be concentrated, go through my e-mails, check what tasks are at our board as well as to find out what's new in our intranet Confluence.
I then get myself a glass of water and start working on my tasks.
Every now and then I get "interrupted" by a [HipChat](https://www.hipchat.com/) message, which I respond to.
Then, at 10:30 a.m. we have our daily, where the whole team comes together to talk about current tasks and eventual challenges.
At 12 o'clock, we have lunch with the team, although I also enjoy to go and have lunch with other teams or bring my own food.
Depending on whether we have meetings or not, I try to focus on my dedicated tasks in the afternoon.

## What type of tasks are these?

Currently, I'm working on a conceptual task.
I'm helping out other teams to prepare UI elements, which can be reused and therefore I provide templates, for example, related to payment issues or alike.
In particular, my colleagues from Jena and I jointly provide a design guideline for Team Ocean since they don't have their own designer.
Other tasks are designing new features.
Just yesterday, I designed new icons and I am redesigning our new drag and drop approach for the editor.
My work is also about bug fixing, code reviews in HTML and LESS.

## What are the required skills for an UI-Designer at ePages?

Regarding soft-skills a UI-Designer should be communicative and shouldn't be afraid to ask colleagues, because we don't sit in only one office, but are spread out.
I often communicate with my colleagues from Jena or Barcelona.
Then, considering hard-skills, a UI-Designer needs to know HTML, Less, and should have an understanding of frontend technologies.
Another requirement is to have some knowledge on UX, because we often work with the UX team in conceptional contexts.
Also, it is absolutely necessary to be up-to-date when it comes to new design principles, patterns and trends.

## What do you like at ePages and its company culture?

I like the fact to be working in a team.
Besides the daily meetings, I can structure my days as I like.
Through ePages' arrangement of flexible working hours, I am able to come - as I mentioned before - a lot earlier to the office than my team colleagues and I am therefore a bit freer to organize my work day.
Also, my colleagues are friendly and helpful.
If I have a question, I can always count on their support.
Concerning the culture of ePages, I appreciate our yearly get-together YOU a lot as well as the internal hackathons.
I then get to see my colleagues from Jena and Barcelona.

## Related posts

* [Working as a Java Developer at ePages](https://developer.epages.com/blog/2016/03/01/hr-java.html)
* [Working as a Ruby Developer at ePages](https://developer.epages.com/blog/2016/02/04/hr-ruby.html)
* [Working as a QA Engineer at ePages](https://developer.epages.com/blog/2016/04/12/hr-quality-assurance.html)
* [One month as an ePagee](https://developer.epages.com/blog/2015/08/11/one-month-as-an-epagee.html)
* [How ePages gives new developers a great start](https://developer.epages.com/blog/2015/07/07/employee-induction-programme.html)
* [Working as a Software Developer at ePages](https://developer.epages.com/blog/2016/06/01/hr-backend.html)
