---
layout: post
title: "SoCraTes 2017 - Order is Optional"
date: "2017-08-28 13:37:42"
image: blog-header/socrates-2017-header.jpg
categories: events
authors: ["Oliver Z."]
---

What happens if you gather approximately 250 people at one place for four days, provide them with shelter, food and drinks?
They might play beach volleyball, teach music theory, jam, dance, explore stoicism, guide each other through our galaxy, play board games, perform magic tricks, improve their handwriting, talk about inclusion and taste proper tea and coffee.
If those people would additionally all care about well-crafted software, you might call this gathering a [**So**ftware **Cra**ftsmanship and **Tes**ting Conference](https://www.socrates-conference.de/).

# SoCraTes 2017

The SoCraTes is an open space conference meaning there is no upfront agenda: All sessions are provided by the participants based on personal experience, preference, skills and demand.
In the morning sessions for the day are pitched and the room-timeslot-matrix (see header image) is populated. In the evening everyone gathers again to recap the day and share what they have learned.

This year's SoCraTes tried to be more inclusive, e.g. by providing gender-neutral bathrooms and a field on the name tags for your preferred pronoun.

I am always impressed by openness of the attendees, everyone is sociable and there are plenty of capable people willing to mentor.
So here I want to share what I took home from the SoCraTes 2017.

## What I learned

As you could guess from the conference format, the SoCraTes experience is highly individual:
You cannot visit all sessions and you are always free to switch sessions at any time ("Law of Two Feet").
Prior to the conference I identified topics I would be interested in.
Being more involved in our company's hiring process I was really interested in how others interview candidates, on-board them and handle a project handover.

### Fixing the Pair Programming Interview

Two sessions hosted by [Raimo Radczewski](https://twitter.com/rradczewski) addressed nearly all my needs.
In the first one on Friday we discussed how to improve pair programming interviews assuming no complex domain (e.g. application or web development).
My takeaways:

* Offer the candidate a choice between a pair programming session or a take-home exercise.
* Before conducting the pair programming interview, write a detailed email to the candidate beforehand to introduce of yourself (the interviewer), explain the task and list used frameworks, ask whether the candidate has any special needs (e.g. dietary restrictions) and describe the development environment/machine you are going to provide to the candidate in detail.
* A controversial point was whether we should ask a candidate to bring her/his own device. Some would like to gauge the development setup of the candidate, but it also creates an additional hurdle. We concluded that bringing your own device should be stated - if at all - as a secondary option.
* During the interview, try to make it a pleasant experience and ask them beforehand if they feel fit enough to be interviewed (similar to an exam).
* Make sure the task is somewhat relevant to your day-to-day business or problem domain. Some companies use a subset of the production code base. Here at ePages we use [ePizza, a microservices hands-on tutorial](https://github.com/ePages-de/epizza).
* If you work on the production code during the interview, make the candidate DELETE the code after the interview! This is to avoid any legal claims.
* The time frame for the pair programming interview should be one to two hours. If you see the candidate suffers, stop the interview and hiring process early.
* If you are interviewing for a senior position, the candidate should lead, point direction, ask questions and communicate clearly.
* Avoid scam tasks or trick questions! Do not grill the candidate! But: play "devils advocate" once a while, the candidate needs to be able to reason his decisions.
* If you see the candidate struggles, offer to lower bar, e.g. by applying junior instead intermediate level criteria.
* After the interview Have a retro with the candidate, ask for and give feedback! You might want to offer a private, non-company-related communication channel, too.

### The Medium Interview Handbook

In second session on Saturday we dissected [Medium's Interview Handbook](https://medium.engineering/mediums-engineering-interview-process-b8d6b67927c4) with a focus on the [grading criteria](https://medium.engineering/engineering-interviews-grading-rubric-8b409bec021f).
While we found some weak spots of this manual, it is still an incredible resource that helps you assess a candidate's fit.

### Oh, it's About Software Development and Technology, too

...so if you always wanted to learn about TDD, mob programming and practice some katas, you are at the right place.

Obviously there were Vim vs. Emacs bashes (or [fish](https://fishshell.com/)es?). Vim clearly won this time around!

* Compilers (refresh + sharing knowledge) ... which also served as a refresher for me.
* Git CLI
  * Meld and the git CLI have an option to ignore whitespace when showing the diff
  * Never change whitespace / formatting in a feature branch / PR
  * Fixup commits
  * zsh provides autocompletion for git hashes (but you should be using [fish shell](https://fishshell.com/) anyway)
* State Kata
* How do you introduce new languages for microservices at your company?
* Toxic team dynamics <---> Awesome team patterns
* Visualizing code
* CircuitBreaker
* QuickCheck
* Microservice intro, microservice testing
* Container orchestration
* Elixir
* Beam - Erlang / Elixir VM
  * Beam is more like an operating system, it assigns processes (Erlang functions) to schedulers
  * Messages are copied from the source to the target process, no shared memory
  * You can link processes, meaning if one of the linked processes dies, all linked (even the indirectly linked ones) processes die
  * Supervisors can restart died processes
  * You can harness this failure-recover method for real business use-cases. Ignore error handling and focus on core business logic
* Cloud IDEs, cloud development setup
* [Awesome intro to functional programming and monads](https://github.com/FaustXVI/functional-programming-introduction/tree/playing)

Softer topics:

* Software career paths
* How to become an expert
* Are you doing bad Scrum?
* Taking over responsibility
* Personal Kanban
  * Eisenhower Matrix
  * Max. 2 things in "Doing"
  * Inbox zero
  * Retro: Good/bad tasks, flow
* About our craft
* Home alone (working as a freelancer from home)
* Communication in development teams
* [Mob Programming RPG by Willem Larsen](https://github.com/willemlarsen/mobprogrammingrpg/) (Fizzbuzz Kata)
  * Exercise to teach good practices and behavior for mob programming
  * For best effect: choose team that does not know mob programming, don't tell it's mob programming
  * When leveling up make some sound like "kaashingg", this adds to the fun and serves as an indicator to the group, when certain behavior resulted in a level-up
* Writing a book
  * Leanpub.com, Softcover.io, Kindle direct, CreateSpace
  * write with colleagues, write for yourself, write something you would read yourself, 300 words/day
  * If you are non-native speaker and write in English without an editor you will sound like an idiot to native speakers
  * Choose the right publisher for your book (is your book long lasting? are recurring editions expected?)
  * Be careful with US-American publishers, if you are behind schedule, they will assign another author to finish the book, replacing you
  * Publisher asks questions and gives feedback beforehand on your ideas

## ??? Summary ???

I filled pages with notes and tapped into invaluable experiences of other attendees ...

Header image courtesy of [Jason Peper](https://www.flickr.com/photos/jason_peper/36632713242/).
